The Plateau
===========

## The Set Out from Shell River ##

The heroes set out from their town with rations of travel teepees and smoked
meats. Also allow the players to take two small, specific, reasonable items
with them. But they have to decide within a few minutes, and I get to veto any
vote. And I'll include a general adventuring pack: rope, travel teepees for the
party, canteens, heavy woven coats (with beautiful designs specific to your
tribes, each with their own name), and your weapons (also with their own
names). The characters should describe the weapons in detail, and have a good
idea of what they are. Weapons are very spiritual items in this culture, and
often have hearts engraved onto them to indicate a livelihood. There are also
rations--it's not super relevant, but they'll probably be smoked meats since
most other things are semi-plagued.

The scenery around begins as a drab, clear river near the ocean, but soon comes
to the mountains. A short climb leaves you right where the elders directed:
through this mountain is the fastest way out of here. It would take days to
walk around, and it is safe _enough_ that it's used a few times a year by
the tribe to forage and seek materials. Up here, it's cold, and the wind whips
up a chill. Snow is frequent, despite how warm it can be down in the village.
Mountain goats hop around this area, and so does the occasional snake. There
are plenty of evergreen trees, and crumbling peaks around. There is an
occasional treacherous pass. It's up to them to travel on now.

## The Bridge Crossing ##

As our heroes continue through a mountain, they discover what a certain symbol
meant on their map--a bridge. There should probably be some kind of flaw coming
into play. It should also be noted that the bridge has cracking footboards, and
unwinding rope binding it together. It will take some skill to cross this
bridge with all party members together. And if it doesn't happen, they'll
either have to continue in different directions, or find another way across. I
think this is best improvised--they're just crossing a bridge, there are
plenty of things to pop up.

## The End of the Road ##

As they get further along the path, they encounter varied sickly animals. Foxes
shyly looking away, covering their sores, ashamed of what's happened. It may be
possible to ask them for direction. You're soon coming to the end of the
descriptions the elders gave you, so you'll need direction soon. They knew of a
specific pass you must go through to cross the mountains, and it can be seen
ominously from the bottom, sitting high above everything, a dark cavern to
consume you. This pass, however, is not easy to reach, and the path to it is
particularly unclear. Thus, you'll need assistance if you want to get there
safely and in time for nightfall (climbing this mountain at night is extremely
dangerous).

If you do ask it for directions, it'll have some idea of where the Phoenix
lays, but not in great detail. It'll also take some effort to communicate with
it, and interpret its signs. It is, however, familiar with the surrounding
mountains, and can give you a variety of paths: the shortest, the safest, and
one inbetween. This choice shouldn't matter much, but it'll dictate how the
tarot card affects the journey (takes too long, has to settle in the mountains
when night comes, some kind of night encoutner, or is too dangerous and some
horrible shit happens on the way).

The safest is a slow, spiraling path up the mountain. Following this path, you
risk letting night fall while you're on the mountain--this was expressly warned
against by the elders. The consequence will be interpreted by tarot cards. The
fastest path is a dangerous, crumbling way straight up the peak. This way will
be extremely fast, but risk falling and losing some item dicated by the cards.
Also, you'll sustain some damage from the fall (major/minor wounds). The other
way is a combination of the two paths, the safest of the fast path, and the
fastest of the slow path. It risks getting there late, and it risks some
danger, but not an exorbitant amount of either. The other two are almost
guaranteed to be late, or to hurt.

## The Runed Peak ##

When the heroes arrive to the top of the mountain, they're greated by a
broad-mouthed cave that shelters them from the wind and, miraculously, from the
cold as well. There are beautiful cave paintings made from blood, clays and
powders smeared across the walls, and engravings that seem to glow with warmth.
All patterns trend in towards the back of the cave where a massive circular
door sits, made of solid stone, and engraved with warnings and wards. The door
shows no handle or keyhole, and appears to operate by some kind of shamanry.

The peak is a safe place to rest, and the elders advise that you stay there for
the night, because the door is easier to open in the morning light. You are
unsure as to why, and the elders only provided one real hint to opening the
door (you suspect because they have never opened it themselves). The way to
open it is two-fold. First, solve a simple puzzle/riddle to find out what to
do, second, do the thing.

Your ancestors, those that came before even the elders, sealed the door so that
your tribe would be safe from Comanche raids. The hint they passed down to your
elders is that it is easiest to open once you have stayed the night.

>When the rooster crows, it will be too soon. When the upturned finger points
to the phoenix, a furry fingernail will grow. Only the nail can reveal the way.

Translated, it effectively says "At noon, a groundhog will emerge from his hole
at the absolute peak of this mountain. He will open the door for you." The
groundhog will probably want something in return, and will need convincing, in
some native american fashion. Like "Long ago, the groundhog had a shrewd beard,
curling from its chin, but the mountain goat, covetous as it is, stole it from
us. As we are small, and confined to our holes, we could not retrieve it. To
this day, the goat hops across the mountain tops because it fears encountering
the groundhog once more, giving us our revenge. Give the groundhog back its
beard, and I will open the way for you."

I'll leave the beard returning up to the heroes. The goats will basically
refuse to exchange anything for the beard, but if the heroes can convince them
they want something more, they'll take it, I suppose. Also, it should be noted
that the sun can't actually rise to be pointed at, so they'll probably have to
wait until they think it's noon, or until they can figure it out from the
position of the sun.

When the groundhog accepts the return of its beard, it opens the door, and
tells you it will be left open until nightfall, at which point it will shut
again, and you cannot open it from the other side. If the party asks, the
Groundhog won't remember much about runs with Elk. He'll recall that he was
rather rude, but completed his task without fail, and so the groundhog was
sworn to open the way for him.

## The Mountain Crypt ##

When they go through, it will be dark, and the heroes will need some kind of
torch or whatever to continue safely. This will effectievly be a crypt sort of
deal that winds through the mountain. For starters, when the door opens, it'll
reveal some skeletons leaned up against it that clatter to the ground. Clearly
they were hoping to make it through, or perhaps they sought shelter from the
Comanche. In any case, you don't recognize the tribal symbols, so it wasn't
anyone trying to get back in. At worst, they would have been there about ten
years--since Runs-With-Elk escaped around that time.

The crypts will be long, and the heroes will encounter plenty of burial sites
and catacomb-like areas. There will also be offerings (obvious offerings)
containing supplies and valuables. The party is welcome to take these, but will
suffer the karmic consequence at a later date. Basically, they'd be able to
collect a small satchel of jewels, some rope (of which they're relatively
short), an extra flint stone, and a short utility blade of above average
quality.

Within the crypt, they'll encounter a large snake curled into the corner. If
they leave it alone, nothing will happen. If they don't, it will threaten to
poison one of them with a horrible sickness. I'll probably use drama or fortune
to resolve any combat the heroes try to instigate with the snake. The snake
could provide poisons for arrows, etc, if they can bargain with it, or trick it
into giving them some. But it could also provide short death unless the poison
was sufficiently removed. The snake might also be protecting something. Eggs, I
guess. I'm not sure why you'd want it, but there could be a reason. This can be
replaced with any relevant material for someone in the party.

Finally, the party will make it out the other side and it will probably be
getting dark once more. However, they will have a clear view down the scape
they will be traveling on in the coming days. The trail you're on swivels down
the mountainside onto curved landscape of valleys and crags. These mountains
gradually get smaller and lower, until the ground becomes mostly flat ground
amidst beautiful red valleys and canyons. Then, the canyons become barren, and
grow less frequent, leaving just flat, dry, cracked dirt that reeks of
death--scorpions, snakes, ravenous coyotes, dehydration--you name it. As this
deadly land curves around the horizon, the sun sits fat and low to the earth,
just out of sight as to where it actually lays. Your ultimate desination is a
mystery, but this view gives some unfortunate insight into where this journey
may lead.
