The Great Basin
===============

## The Mountain Trail ##

For a while, you encounter Elk that bound around the vaguely mountainous
region. Sickly, you fear their meat may, too, be tainted, although you happen
to find one healthy one. Some kind of encounter will determine if you manage to
get it. Your rations will last for a while, but not forever, and it is almost
inevitable that you will need more food or end up starving (which is fairly
likely, but not to death. Just to deathly appearance).

There's probably a lot of options with the elk. I'm not sure if they could be
mounted, but the heroes can pretty much dream up anything to do. I think the
issue will arise that mounted animals refuse to eat and will just die off after
a while, so you'll gain a boost, but not a huge one. And recall, the goal is to
get to the end asap since everybody is dying off in the meantime, so this isn't
a bad tradeoff. There may be karmic consequences for exploiting the Elk,
however.

## The Flat Trail ##

As you continue, you notice some disguised flagstones that you recognize almost
immediately due to tribal symbols being abound on them. It would appear that
someone from the tribe have gone this way, and is giving you a path to travel
along. Perhaps they are still out there somewhere? You are, however, aware of
the other tribes roaming around. They keep their distance, and they behave very
apprehensive and untrusting of you. You're welcome to do whatever you want with
them, but they won't really interact with you.

Something interesting would be if a single member of their tribe (who could
speak the tongue) pleads to come with you. He offers his skills, says that he
has plenty of rations for himself, and that he wants to help. Trust him if you
will, but depending on your karmic behavior earlier, he'll try to steal stuff
or he'll do nothing and admit what he was going to do and quit. Fortune cards
would help with this.

After the guy joins, some NA highwaymen might be appropriate. A small band,
requiring a tussle on your part. Shouldn't be too hard, just a break for
combat. Then, after that's done, you'll recognize the symbols and be able to
locate the tribe's smoke signals on the horizon, asking the highwaymen to
return with their loot. This is where you can pretend to be them, etc, to gain
some kind of advantage. They should be aware that they have _some_ time to fuck
around and get things, just not _forever_. The longer they wait, the more they
_risk_, that's it.

I'm not sure what exactly will happen with the tribe, but I'll say this: they
have a doctor, a good number of footmen, some essentials for trade (they hunt
things specific to the region, if that helps. I can look it up on the fly,
nbd), they have and want valuables, and they have some craftsmen for carving
wood or bone, etc, depending on what they might need. They might also be able
to repair weapons or whatever.

The party should keep in mind that they'll want to travel light. It'll allow
them to move faster, which means their rations will last longer/further, and at
some point, they really won't need all of that fur they're carrying.

## The Hopi Spirit Dance ##

As you get out of this region, and really get into the Great Basin, there will
be plenty of red and brown canyons to walk through, plenty of high walls and
gorgeous scenery, and every once in a while you'll see a tribal painting (that
you don't recognize at all). You'll start passing plenty of mesas, and one
night, you'll encounter a tall mesa with a long, flat head, upon which bright
white, green and blue flashes are taking place. Occasionally yellow joins them.
If the party thinks this is worth investigating, they can try to make it to the
top of the mesa. At first, they'll be incredulous as to how anybody got up
there, but as they get closer, they'll realize there are cavernous entrances
near the foot of the mesa. Some climbing is required to get up to the entrance,
but once everyone gets up there, they can go inside. The corridors are almost
labryinthian, and escher. They distort the mind and senses, and require some
serious clarity of mind and sense of direction to finally make it all the way
up to the top. Draw some fortune cards and decide how this affects the party
(for drama's sake, I'd rather they make it to the top, but there should be
consequences for fucking up, like almost falling out of a hole near the top of
the mesa, having to waste/use materials to get out, etc.). They'll be allowed
to adapt to the scenarios, but they'll all be intended to use some material,
and I'll present that as the option.

When the party finally makes it to the top, they'll be "greeted" by a
terrifying spirit dance of the Hopi tribe. Enormous masks, jutting off like the
radiance of the sun as a crown of glow. They kick up white dust into clouds
that sit in the air, creating a fog to swim through in their dance. Their masks
are colored as the flashes, white green and blue. These dancers don't seem to
acknowledge your presence. Amidst the swirling white dust, you can barely see a
swirling black dust, against the tide of the outer fog. Within it, dance three
old women, lively as teenagers, creating bright flashes with somatic and manual
invocations.

These elderly women are seers, casting shapes from the flames that indicate
what will come. The party may ask them advice, prompting a quick look at the
spirit deck. They will then invite you to join and dance your cares away--it
can be magically refreshing, they say. Maybe it's just you, but they also start
to appear younger. The women are transforming into beautiful, young women, spry
and full of sexual energy. They are inviting, but it's pretty suspicious, so
leave it up the the party. Then, interpret the results partially by what the
tarot cards say. Ideas for issues: the women are trying to steal your supplies,
syphon your powers, or trick you into giving them information. Perhaps they
simply want pleasure, and are altering their appearances for your sake.
