The Southwest
=============

## Descent ##

Devling deeper into the ragged innards of Native America is showing you a
rather inhospitable mother nature. The plants are more vicious than the
animals, scratching and biting without fear or remorse. The sun is getting much
closer at this point, and the shadows are becoming darker and more intense.
Every little blade of grass has a heavy, dark shadow extending from its base,
piercing the land. It isn't bright, and you can look at it without having to
squint, but the rays will harm your eyes nonetheless, so you try to look down
as you walk forward.

As you walk, facing down, you occasionally notice what looks like a rabbit in
your peripheral vision. Pose this as an encounter to the adventurers, I
suppose. They are welcome to try and catch the rabbit, since it doesn't appear
to be plagued, but it will always escape. Always just too fast. Use faked
fortune if you must.

As you get deeper into these harsh lands, you come across a talking coyote.
Perhaps this coyote is special, or perhaps the party is suffering from heat
stroke, dehydration, you name it. Perhaps the wavering lines of the sun,
coating the landscape like a shimmering, hot oil, that cause you to think the
coyote's mouth is contouring to speech. You could swear that he said "He wants
your bones." The adventurers are welcome to ignore this, but if they talk to
the Coyote, he will explain:

>"He wants your bones." Who? "The rabbit. He wants your bones." What rabbit?
"You have seen him, I know. He is the shadow at your feet." Why? "Where once
his ears were rigid, they now flop. Flop. Flop. The bones were stolen from him,
so he must steal his own. He sees you teetering through these lands. He sees
your death on the horizon. It will not be long until. He. Has. Them." But it's
just a rabbit. "The rabbit watches your back. He is fast. He can leave his
mark. Lay his traps. Hasten. Your. Deaths."

The coyote speaks with sporadic pauses and popping 't's and 'p's, or the like
at the beginning and ends of words. As a trickster figure, he is apparently
also impatient, and that should be emphasized in his mannerisms, I suppose.
Finally being constructive, he offers his help:

>"The rabbit thinks you will die, but you will not if you come. With. Me."
Where? "

Ultimately, the coyote just wants your help to figet something for him. Since
he can't get hit himself, he must trick strangers into working for him. I think
he's probably just going to lead you to his den. The rabbit will think you're a
meal, since you walked into the coyote den, and he wouldn't dare try to take
the bones from the coyote. I think his den will be some kind of pit that he
traps you inside (of course you can try to leave). This will have to be
adapted, depending on powers and shit.

If the coyote wants you to get something, he might offer a solution: the rabbit
won't stop chasing you unless it has your bones, or unless you kill it. It
instructs you to find ingredients for a potion, but it turns out the potion
does something entirely different than what he says it will. Perhaps it revives
a dead coyote, etc. But you need to climb in a tree to get the fresh fruit
required, that kinda garbage.
