The Hell of The Mountain King
=============================

You've managed to escape the ruins of the town, and the ever-approaching
desert. Now you need to find out what the hell you're supposed to do with this
fucking dog and that map.

Notes: Balasar and Naivara made it out with you (and Bart, Jacques, Atomsk...),
but Blaarrhahhgaarh didn't, and you don't know where he is.

## Quick Jacques Overview ##

This is for Matt, who will be playing Jacques next session. Not entirely sure
what's going to happen. 

Jacques:

Halfling Child, about 8

STR 8
DEX 10
CON 7
INT 8
WIS 8
CHA 14

To make things simple, Jacques has no class, no feats, special abilities, etc.
He has the following skill bonuses:

+4 to Sleight of Hand checks
+2 to Deception checks

The story that Jacques tells everyone (that you can assume the party knows):

Jacques grew up in a small village in Westos called Pebble-Bridge. His mother
served the royalty around there, and she became involved with a nobleman who
turned out to be quite abusive. One day, he saw that she was especially
bruised, and she told him to run and never turn back. Jacques knew he needed to
sneak out, so he hid in the luggage of the Empire's head witch, who happened to
be passing through. Mid-travel, he was discovered. Iragora (the witch)
threatened to put him through a portal, when Baader (Alex) intervened to defend
the child, who had done no wrong. As punishment, Iragora sent both of them, as
well as Baader's men, through the portal.

What Jacques has experienced with the party:

Jacques and Baader fell through the portal into a vast desert. They quickly
encountered hostile tribes of wanderers wearing garb of sewn-together
squirrels. Slowly, battle after battle, Baader's men were all picked off,
though Jacques remained safe due to Baader having taken a shining to him.
Baader values self-sacrifice in battle, and takes vengeance very seriously, so
he's been hunting down the people who killed his men.

One day, while confronting a group of wanderers in the name of vengeance, you
encounter the rest of the party:

    * Andral a half-elf warlock who takes vengeance for petty, personal
    grievances. He used to be nobility, and likes to persuade people.
    * Grond, a dwarf barbarian who has a thing for kidnapping kids. He'll do
    anything for his tribe, and has developed a tendency to crotch-headbutt.
    * Taenerys Dargaryen, a dragonborn cleric of Sune (fire/love) who thinks
    she's the queen of all dragonborn. Will try to burn just about anything.
    * Bart (NPC), a bard-barbarian combo who sings horrible songs. His lute is
    broken so he tends to whistle. Has become depressed as of late.

You agree to pair up to get out of the desert, which everyone has come to hate.
Together, you encounter a god, in the flesh, who is needy and capricious, that
asks you to retrieve some artifacts for him. You go to his disciple
(unintentionally), who tells you not to get them, and then promptly becomes
very upset with the party and throws you out, physically, across the desert.
Then you head to a camp where the rest of the party needs to go (for some
reason), where you have a stand-off with the wanderers. You agree to avoid
fighting for now, because the god from before (Urabrask), and his brother
(Vorinclex), are fighting above the camp and paying no attention to who gets
caught in the crossfire. You bail with the help of Urabrask's disciple, on the
back of a sand wurm, where you fight a bunch of crazy shit on your way out of
the desert.

Once on dry land, you arrive in a village where the rest of the party came from
(as far as you can tell). The wanderers and the villagers have some kind of
dispute, but Baader tells you to keep an eye on the wanderers. You accidentally
witness two men making passionate love to one another inside a hut. You are
traumatized. Then everyone tries to go to sleep, and in the middle of the
night, the party discovers that the villge isn't a safe place to stay (sand
monsters are coming out of the desert). You tell people, they're drunk, there's
a misunderstanding, and there's an all-out war between the two clans. Taenerys
tries to burn down a house with the leaders inside, a half-orc who hates her
comes out and tries to kill her, criticizing the party for killing a good man
(the village leader). You kill him and run for the mountains, because the
party has a map indicating to go in that direction.

Now, the things that nobody else knows about Jacques:

It's not too bad. Basically, everything he said is true, except that his
mother's lover wasn't abusive, Jacques just didn't like him. Thus, his mom
never told him to run, the reason Jacques was in Iragora's luggage is because
he was stealing from it when someone came by, so he jumped inside it and hid.
When he was discovered, the shook him down and found he'd stolen from them.
Baader missed this, and Jacques has been trying to keep it a secret.

Worse, however, is that Jacques hasn't stopped stealing. He has a penchant for
shiny things. In fact, Jacques' stealing has resulted in the deaths of Baader's
men. Their armor is from some holy order, and there are shiny, silvered rings
holding the armor together. Jacques had been weakening their armor by taking as
many of the rings as he could without anyone noticing, often causing the armor
to fall off mid-battle, exposing their weak spots. He carries a small pouch of
these silver rings with him, and although he regrets his actions, can't bring
himself to stop. His flaw is that he will try to take anything small and shiny
that he sees, and put it into the pouch.

## The Reveals ##

In this part, the party will head west to encounter 1: that the half-elf is
somehow demonically bound/possessed, and 2: that Jacques is mostly responsible
for the death of Baader's men. Also, they will encounter a gnome boy that
they'll have to chase after probably.

### Naivara ###

At some point, her shit is gonna come up. The layered voice thing. She'll deny
it, and if truly confronted, she'll just opt to leave the party, but she
refuses to talk about it with them. She will tell Andral in secret, though, if
sufficiently coerced.

She remembers his family. The fire-rivers, of course, who couldn't? She's a
whisperwind (assume Andral remembers a small family to the south of his lands).
They were removed from diplomatic occasions when it was discovered they had
been grotesquely bridging ancient elven beliefs with demon worship, at,
surprisingly, no harm to anyone in particular. Still, to keep up appearances,
they were ignored. Naivara can tell that Andral has made a pact, and admits
that this is why she was drawn to him. She feels that he might truly understand
what she's going through.

Naivara is sharing her soul with a Shadow Demon. It shows in her attempts to
conceal herself under a hood, and stay out of sight. She also dislikes the light.

Shadow Demon p 64:

13 AC, Stealth + 7, vulnerable to radiant, can move through objects/people,
sensitive to light, can hide for free in dim light/darkness, melee attack is
+5, 2d6+3 on hit, 4d6+3 if it has advantage.

### Jacques ###

At some point, Jacques will trip and spill his pouch. Baader will have
advantage on recognizing the rings, but the rest of the party won't know
anything beyond "they go on armor maybe".

##  Day One ##

The first day, a member of the party awakens to a very large squirrel (like
person-sized), running around the jungle. At first, it's just rustling, so the
decision is to * investigate or not: if you investigate, it risks awaking
Taenerys, who will be upset that she's had her beauty sleep continually ruined.

Upon investigating, they find it's a huge squrrel that appears to be docile. It
slowly approaches the camp. If stopped, it'll get defensive and swat at the
person before running off into the jungle at lightning speed. With a successful
handle animal check (whatever that is), the squirrel can be sort of tamed, and
brought along. It can also be killed for a lot of meat.

If the squirrel isn't stopped, or isn't investigated, it's going to steal
something from the camp, and try to bury it deeper into the Jungle. As you go
through the jungle, you'll see  the crumbling ruins of buildings, and somewhere
inside one of these ruins will be a broken statue of a minotaur wielding a
wheat swoard and shield of bread. You probably won't see the whole thing,
likely just the sword or shield on the ground. Just a hint. The squirrel will
be in there, buring some valuables, and will be surprised. Another choice, and
this will be the final dealing. It might come back if you don't kill it, but
nothing's planned.

When the squirrel runs, there's a short encounter to follow it into the jungle
without losing it. A check here, a check there. Max three. Athletics,
Acrobatics and Perception. Sure.

## The Walk ##

### Bart ###

As they travel through the mountains, there should be an encounter with Bart
singing songs. Over the days it gets worse and they have to deal with it
(Nothing super serious. Some light-hearted breaks.). For example, the first
day, he sings the same song, and it just gets worse. Perhaps he starts with
Hall of the Mountain King, and it gets progressively more chaotic and
dissonant. The music is unsettling to the party, and his tones start to reflect
the blackened, terrible peaks around you, these ragged mountain claws, tearing
at the sky.

Soon, the tune changes. The words start getting really poetic and obscure, and
his rhythms start getting more experimental. I think a good decision point is
to decide whether or not to let him continue his horrible songs, in the
interest of developing new bardic chants, or to put him down and make him
depressed again. If they let him continue, he'll start to scare Jacques, who
will begin to have nightmares, with visions of a great, black hall, tall as a
mountain, towering pillars rising into nothingness. He walks down the hall, and
his footsteps echo indefinitely through the rows and rows of pews. As he walks,
a shape begins to form at the end of the hall. It's dark, but there are two
torches sitting to each side of a throne, flickering a bit of light in Jacques'
direction. And sitting atop the throne, he sees a wretched shape. A small,
humanoid, with a long, pointed chin, and frazzled hair. The fire glints off the
sharp, pointed crown, revealing blood dripping down from its points. As Jacques
gets closer, step by step, he can slowly make out the face. A twisted grin, the
glint of fire flickering off of his teeth. And then Jacques wakes up in a cold
sweat.

I think a good short encounter would be to have Jacques wake up and see a
looming dark figure approaching him. In reality, it's just Baader, but Jacques
is scared from the dream, and must act fast (or not). Give a taste of roleplay.

There are plenty of options. He carries his broken lute like a stillborn,
keeping it warm with his body heat. Perhaps, if you could fix it (crazy
adventure of getting things and trying to repair a lute), he would stop
whistling these horrifying tunes. This adventure should have plenty of decision
points. Getting/making string form sinew (need a big fucking squirrel or a
person for that). Crafting new tuning pegs, cementing the body back together
with something (melted metal, concrete, etc...). Fixing the lute is the
non-confrontational version of getting him to stop. At least, it could
potentially end that way. 

Alternatively, you might just tell him to stop, and suppress it, which may risk
his abandonment of the party, etc. I think a good solution would be to convince
him that this depressing shit isn't okay. If you succeed, you show him that
this part of his life was to show him the bad, and to test his resolve. He
needs to be able to work through it, and it makes him a better person. Before,
he was just cocky and voilent, and now he knows better than that. Before is
more accurate to "before the village", which is why he's taken Hank dying so
hard. It was kind of like Hank was Bart's reason to not be so aggressive, and
now that he's really gone, Bart has nobody to disaapoint by returning to his
old ways. He was playing the song for Hank (a dwarf), since it was his
favorite. Bart is going to continue mourning until he gets over it, or you make
him do so. An incentive for the Lute would be that Hank is the one who told
Bart his lute-playing was good, and encouraged him to express himself musically
rather than physically.

Suppression would likely be a task in which Bart will resist at first, but then
storm off and obey you, very passive-aggressively. Basically, by your actions,
you're forming how Bart's character is going to change over the course of your
travels. He can wind up roughly the same, be depressed, be aggressive, leave,
or even be happier than before.

The walk doesn't lose its difficulty, however. The whole trail feels uphill,
and the sky is murky and looming with dark clouds, though it never seems to
rain. The party struggles with the travel on a mental and emotional level.
Bart's shit, however, puts it over the top.

Okay, how to phrase this?

Bart's playing is bumming everyone out. On one hand, he's very clearly grieving
for Hank, playing an old Dwarven song. On the other hand, he's starting to
upset some members of the party. You also notice his singing getting much more
experimental, which is both interesting and very annoying. One day, while Bart
is out, the rest of the group casually brings up his singing, and begins the
discussion about how to handle it. What do you do? The obvious options are
"tell him to stop" and "let him keep doing it, it's not that bad". However,
there is the looming question about what's wrong with him. It's not something
you need to answer right now, so an acceptable answer is "eh, let's see where
it goes," but it's something you should be aware of as you travel.

Wisdom checks reveal the Lute option, and potentially the closure option. Maybe
perception for the lute. Charisma for the closure option.

### Prey ###

Next they encounter a fat, angry, squirrel. Baader on a wisdom roll of 14
recognizes the somewhat agitated demeanor of the squrrel and thinks it's a good
training buddy for Jacques. This'll basically be a short combat encounter where
Jacques tries to hit the squirrel.

### Friends ###

So they ended up capturing the squirrel, and they're dragging it around, tied
up. There should be a short encounter where they manage to tame it or befriend
it or something. That, or turn it into strings for Bart. I'm fine with either,
honestly.

It would also be good to have a short scene at the start where the squirrel
gets away (perhaps while Andral is awake), and they have to decide what to do
with it. Maybe this is after the decision of "well what do you do with it.
You can tell that it isn't just going to magically decide it likes you, etc, so
you'll need to do something to change its mind, let it go, or deal with it in
some other way (this includes continuing to drag it around).

### Debts ###

Balasar will try to gamble with Jacques (and co), betting gems and such shit.
He also wants someone to make alcohol for him. That could be an interesting
experience.

### Gnome ###

Then, they see it. In the distance, on a hill, a gnome boy climbing over rocks.
He's real, he's not magic (his shoes are magic, though), and he doesn't quite
notice the party yet. He's not dressed in squirrel garb, it actually looks like
classical gnomish leatherwork. How to phrase this? Bart doesn't notice, so he's
still singing his shitty song.

In the distance, halfway up the long hill in front of you, is a small gnome boy
climbing over the rocks. At a glance you can tell that he isn't wearing
squirrel clothing (check for gnomish leatherwork info), and he seems to be
bending over the ground (check for greens, nature or arcana for ingredients).
You all know that there were supposedly no kids in this world, and are
suspicious of his Gnomeness. He hasn't noticed you yet. What do you do?

The second he notices you (yes, even if you use persuasion), he'll run, so
you'll have to give chase, or let him go. Ideas for the chase: the way is
rocky, but there's a clearer path off to the left. It'll take time to get
there, but you'll be able to run faster on it. At some point, a river
intersects the path: do what you will. There's also a point where there's a
cliff that you can jump off (risk serious damage to catch up), or climb down,
as the boy will do. Then, some tall rocky paths, ones inbetween cracked gorges,
where he has the potential to lose people. Failed perception checks will let
him get away. Finally, I think it'll end on a hill up to the mouth of a cave
where he'll dart inside, but at least you'll know where he went. Oh and the
"lose them in the crowd" scene could be in there. Running through a field of
squirrels, some kind of check or decision to kick through them or whatever.

Consequence for running: you risk slipping on the crumbling rocks (dex check),
and hurting yourself as well as falling prone and losing speed.

The tall gorges should have a path down into them and one up above. A wisdom
check will alert the characters to the fact that being on top of the gorge,
while leaving you unable to safely catch him, will alert you to his position so
that you can announce it to the rest of the party (the gorge is clearly
twisting). There will be DEX checks to maintain your position up there and jump
across the gaps (not too bad... DC 10 or something).

The flatter trail will let you run freely, but will take a move to get there
and back.

I'm also open to just about any other ideas. Describe the area liberally, and
just go for it.
