Index
=====

For a playing guide, see:

* [The Story](story/TheBeginning.md)

## Intro ##

This should be a short adventure tracking a group of Native Americans across
the continent as they undergo a spiritual quest to save their dying world.
Ideally it can be finished in two sessions. This will require some careful
planning and consideration, and plenty of sacrifices will have to be made in
order to keep it within this time limit. We'll be using the Everway RP system,
so it will be a learning experience in multiple regards. I won't shy to
incorporate other RP elements as well, however. The story will be loosely based
on the progression in Heart of Darkness, borrowing elements from that story to
convey a slow, brooding feeling.

Given that characters will be made at play time, I will have to brainstorm the
possiblities of my pre-rendered story. Namely, this will involve how each
threat, each puzzle, each interaction within the game may represent one of many
different flaws, virtues and fates. Perhaps the fortune deck should be drawn
from for inspiration.

## Lore ##

Perhaps I should read some short exerpts on NA culture before proceeding. In
any case, I want to call this land "Native America". I think that's funny, and
suiting. I can only guess that this will be rife with inaccuracies and that we
will embrace them wholeheartedly as fact in this realm.

My initial ideas are these: the people of their world are nomadic. They roam
the plains, hold no place as their permanent home, and revel in the freedom
that this lifestyle provides. They are a very spiritual people, clinging to
tribes of those who worship similarly. Overall, however, the people of this
land believe in the legend of the Phoenix.

### Legend of the Phoenix ###

The legend of the phoenix can be a short one: this world is tied to the life of
a phoenix. This phoenix lives free, and there are many who claim to have seen
it, or been blessed by its presence in passing. Although the tribes worship
different gods, they all worship the phoenix, the one who sustains nature. This
is achieved when the phoenix molts, and sheds the impurities of the world, only
to be born again in a nest of ashes. She represents the cycle of life, and the
natural way: motherhood, and the cleansing properties of death. Whenever the
world becomes too corrupt, or bogged-down, the phoenix molts, shedding away
evil, and revitalizing the natural world. It is considered virtuous to mirror
the phoenix in life, refusing to waste in any way, shape or form. Nature
deserves the respect and reverence of those who life off of it.

### Plot Hook ###

The world is dying. Sick birds fall from the sky, plagued with crusty, black
sores. The valley of warmth, a common crossing for the tribes of the great
plains, is lost to irritable, sickly bison. The tribes are unable to roam, and
are forced into stagnation--a fate that will ultimately bring death. The land
that they currently populate cannot sustain their tribes for much longer.
Concerned for the fate of the world, the leaders of these tribes have elected
members to seek the reason that the Phoenix can no longer cleanse the world.

Not everyone from the tribes can go, however. Firstly, the group should be
small, to ensure the utmost mobility and chance of success. Secondly, some
members needed to stay with their respective tribes. The witch doctors, for
example, are staying to heal and protect the weak. Thirdly, many tribesmen are
sick, and plenty have already seen the cold grip of death. This unlikely group
of adventurers is the only chance the great plans has.

Due to their spiritual nature, and the mystery surroundig the phoenix, the
tribes are unsure as to how to even approach this problem. There is one lead,
however. It is said that the Phoenix flies with the sun, and where the sun sets
onto the earth into the phoenix's nest of ash. This is where the elders believe
our heroes might find the answers they seek. It is unknown what lies beyond the
horizon, as the tribes have never had reason to continue in that direction, but
our heroes are soon to find out. (fun fact, it sets in the south, and they'll
encounter mayan tribes)

## Story Overview ##

This is primarily brainstorming, but we'll see.

The story begins with our heroes being ushered to an open council, firelit
under a star-filled sky. The flames crackle across the faces of the three
village elders, seated upon three distinctly decorated seats, carved from wood.
The heroes approach, are greeted, and then debriefed, in character. They will
be allowed one last night amongst their people, but when day breaks, they must
leave for the nest. Each hero understands what is being asked of them, and is
at the very least willing to go.

Have some interesting characters in town. I'll have to come up with a list of
Everway names for improvization. Let them do whatever, and at some point call
time. The camps settle down for the night, there is nothing to do but sleep.
The sky is clear tonight, and the stars flicker to show you just how dark the
sky behind it really is. For a brief moment before going to bed, each of you
looks up beyond the stars and gets a feeling of what's to come (either use
their fates or draw cards, keeping the results in mind).
